In the previous lectures we had some parts in our code where we define some variables and then we mentioned
that later we will get these values from a theme option's page.
So I think it's now time to do that and we will do that using the Customized API.
So I'll put a link to this guide here but we will walk through most parts of it, so you can go through
it
after watching this section if you need to know more information.
So let's open our website and always make sure your MAMP server is open.
I have mine opened here and I'm gonna change my theme and run "npm start".
And let's open a new tab.
wp-admin.
And let's go to appearance and Customize. So if you're using Gulp and browserSync
that we set up you'll get this a blank page.
And that's because WordPress is using an iframe to display the Web site here.
And iframe needs to load the local host 8888 which is the MAMP port.
But we are using 300.
And that violates the iframe security policy.
So when you're using the Customizer make sure to use the 888 port.
And it should load.
So here is the Customizer and by default it has some default options that is included with the WordPress
core.
So you can change the Site Title and as you can see it will reload the whole iframe in order to reflect
on your website.
You can add a fav icon from here as well and you can also edit the menus.
So here we get a list of all menus and we can create a new one.
And here we get the menu locations that we defined in our theme in the last section.
So we have the main menu which is assigned to a menu called the "Main Menu". And we can, and we have the footer
menu but we haven't displayed it anywhere in the theme. So we can edit the Main Menu and we can do
that and that will refresh the menu as you can see.
So that's pretty cool right.
So one quick note here, remember when we were creating the JavaScript for the navigation in source navigation.
And I told you that we have to use a event delegation here and we can't attach the event directly to the "menu-
item-has-children".
And the reason was in the Customizer our JavaScript is now working and everything.
And if you change something in the menu the Customizer will refresh this menu and add new DOM
elements in the menu.
So if we attach the event directly. And let's try it out. Attach the event directly to the item.
And refresh.
And we can edit the menu directly from this button.
So it's working now initially but if we change something it will refresh and JavaScript won't work
anymore because these are new DOM elements and they don't have the event attached to them.
However delegating the event to the "c-navigation" element it will ensure that this event will
always run because the "c-navigation" element is always there.
It won't get replaced when the menu is replaced.
Second search for event delegation if you want to know more about this.
But anyways let's see some other features in the Customizer. So we have the widgets and we get all
the sidebars that we register in our theme.
And then you click on one of them and we get the widgets in the sidebar.
So let's try and edit this and 7 posts and this will refresh the whole iframe and it will reflect on
the widget. And we can add another widget
and so on.
We also have the home page settings and if you need to add additional CSS to your theme. So you can
type here some CSS.
And it will reflect in your theme directly without even refreshing the iframe.
Let's take a look now at the structure of the Customizer code wise.
So it's an object oriented API.
There are four main objects in the Customizer: Panels, Sections, Settings and Controls.
So it's open this diagram here.
So this is the Customize control.
And this is the iframe.
So it's this and this.
So the Customize control contains panels and sections and controls. So the sections are these which is
"Site Identity", "Menus", "Widgets", "Homepage Settings" and so on. And controls are these fields and these controls
are used to change settings.
So we have settings and controls. The settings of various saved in the database so we can use as options
and controls as the UI that you change the settings with.
So you can have text fields and checkboxes and stuff like that.
And these are controls that will change settings.
So as you can see here we have controls inside sections and these controls will change settings.
And when you change controls and settings it will reflect on the iframe by either refreshing the whole
iframe. Or two other things selective refresh and post a message and we'll take a deeper look at these in
later lectures.
And we also have panels and the panel can contain multiple sections.
So we mentioned that we have sections and each section can have multiple controls. Panels are
another object that can contain multiple sections.
So here we have one panel that contain these sections but this API is designed to have multiple panels
so we can have another panel with other sections. But this will be rarely used and actually it's mentioned
here in the in this guide.
The themes should not register their own panels in most cases. So we will ignore panels in this course.
And you probably won't need to use it.
So all of these things panels, sections, controls are PHP classes and they're all managed by another
PHP object which is called the Customize Manager object.
So how do we access this object is by using actions.
So let's go to our code.
And now let's create a new, let's close this one, let's create a new file in the lib. And let's call it customize.php
customize.php. And let's include it in functions.php.
And inside customize
let's create a new function. Sorry this. open PHP tag first
and create a new function
prefixed and let's call it "customize_register".
And this action get the customized manager object path here.
So let's call it $wp_customize.
And then let's add our function to the action. And the action is called "customize_register".
and let's give it the function.
So inside this function we now can access the Customize Manager object. And we can use some methods inside
this class like add_panel(), get_panel(), remove_panel(), add_section() and so on,
in order to edit and add sections and fields and settings to the Customizer.
So let's add our first setting in the next lecture.